---
title: This week at Digital Land
date: 2019-06-07
---

The big news this week was new regulations for [The Community Infrastructure Levy (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2019](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2019/9780111185582) have been laid before Parliament, an important step for the [developer contributions](https://digital-land.github.io/project/developer-contributions/) policy.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/psd/48008447912/" title="Data collection workshop"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/48008447912_ebb133eaaf_c.jpg" alt="Data collection workshop"></a>

Paul D participated in the first [Product Management community of practice](https://twitter.com/psd/status/1136900443026669569) meeting organised by Sam and represented the team at a workshop looking at how the department collects data for analysis, which resulted in these postits to explain Digital Land:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/psd/48007728537/" title="Explaining Digital Land: Ecosystem (making data available to overcome information disparity); Users (diversifying development); Goals (changing the relationship between communities and development); Opportunity (fixing the broken housing market!)"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/48007728537_7768346940_c.jpg" alt="Explaining Digital Land: Ecosystem (making data available to overcome information disparity); Users (diversifying development); Goals (changing the relationship between communities and development); Opportunity (fixing the broken housing market!)"></a>

Natalie and Ed have been meeting the policy teams we're working with and Natalie went to the third <a href="https://www.instituteforgovernment.org.uk/events/data-bites-3-getting-things-done-data-government">Data Bites event at the Institute for Government</a> meaning someone from the team has been to each one.

Helena has been continuing our research into [local plans](https://digital-land.github.io/project/local-plans/), and begun a plan for improving our design process, starting with how we investigate prospective projects and shape discoveries.

Christine has been continuing to prototype the registers editor, adding a check-entry page, and Jake has begun work on a [proof of concept](https://github.com/digital-land/validator-serverless) for the Registers validator using [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/) and [Lambda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AWS_Lambda).

Rebecca was in Leeds for the [One team gov wellbeing camp](https://medium.com/oneteamgov/one-team-gov-wellbeing-camp-411c409946df) and Emily picked up lots of practical tips and tricks from a [content design course](https://contentdesign.london/content-design-2-day-course/) in Bristol where her writing was subjected to a 20 person [content crit](https://contentdesign.london/content-design/content-crits/)!

The [Building a safer future: proposals for reform of the building safety regulatory system](https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/building-a-safer-future-proposals-for-reform-of-the-building-safety-regulatory-system) public consultation was opened which will inform any future discovery work for the [golden thread](https://digital-land.github.io/project/golden-thread-of-building-information/) project.
