---
title: Digital land sprint notes
date: 2020-09-08
---

_This sprint we’ve finished our first round of local plans user research into data providers, and we're now speaking with data consumers. We've worked with BoPS and RIPA to build a backlog of planning data, and Paul has started building a collection of conservation areas._

## User research into local plans

Lorna carried out the last interviews with local planning authorities about their local plan processes and systems, and how development policies might be understood as data. She ran 3 sessions with the team, to specifically focus on the 3 key design problems in the research which were:

How might we design a process for local planning authorities to produce data about local plans and policies, which they find easy to carry out?
How might we design a data standard for local plan policies that local planning authorities will find easy to produce?
Do local planning authorities understand the value of this work, and what would motivate them to undertake it to a high standard?

These sessions prompted interesting conversations amongst the team and helped us to identify key decisions we need to make. We also have found areas we need to investigate further, such as:

* What information do local planning authorities already send to the Planning Inspectorate and does it overlap with what we will be asking for?
* Who in each organisation will publish the data? And how much influence do we have, or need, over which roles in local planning authorities should publish the data?
* Does our work need to sit outside local authorities’ existing processes?
* What is the potential scope of this project and of what we hope to achieve? This could relate to various factors, such as what metrics, measurements or evidence we may include, which policies or documents we cover, or how far back we expect the data to go.
* What are all the potential scenarios in terms of joint plans, overlapping plans, multiple plans and documents? Does our existing schema fit these or have the flexibility to meet new scenarios?

Loïc started speaking to potential consumers of our data. Five PropTech startups participated in a series of in-depth interviews, where we explored their user needs and aspirations for a service that makes planning and housing data available to everyone.
Key questions we’re covering include:

* How do they currently explore data needed to build their products?
* How do they access data?
* What are the main barriers they currently have when getting hold of data?
* What are their expectations in terms of accessing planning data with us?
* What are their preferences in terms of data delivery method?
* How can we enable trust in our data?
* How can we engage with the proptech sector when new datasets are made available?

